I think everybody needs to listen to
this episode if they want to start 2026
properly. If there's one thing I've
learned that's really stayed with me
this year, it's from speaking to some of
the world's leading minds about our
brain, which might just be the most
powerful asset that we all have. You
know, if you listen to the Diary of a
SEO, you're probably listening because
you're trying to get something, whether
it's information, inspiration, maybe
entertainment, [music]
all of which because you're striving
towards some kind of goal. And it's
dawned on me this year because I've
interviewed so many incredible [music]
neuroscientists that this all starts
with having a healthy brain. Because all
of our thoughts, our feelings, our
relationships, our [music] memories, our
chance of having a future start in the
brain. So, in this special [music]
Christmas episode, we're going to focus
on the brain. How you can have the
[music] most fundamentally healthy brain
so you can live the most fundamentally
meaningful life. I've been through all
the episodes where we've [music] talked
about the brain and I've looked at the
moments that you shared and replayed the
most. and the moments that added the
most value to your [music] life. And
I've put all of them into this episode
today.
[music]
>> Do you remember the first time you saw a
human brain?
>> I do.
>> Did it change how you think about your
own brain?
>> It changed my life because I was like, I
want to study that. That is the coolest
thing that I've ever seen in my whole
life. It was life-changing.
>> I say that because we, you know, at the
start of this conversation, we said that
most of us don't appreciate our brain. A
lot of people don't even realize it's
there. But the minute I had a brain scan
one day, and that brain scan
>> really changed my life because seeing my
own brain for the first time,
>> it was the push that I needed
>> to start caring more about how my
decisions and behaviors are impacting
it. So, let's talk about how I can make
that ball of tofu in my head, super
healthy, big, fat, and fluffy. You you
talked about exercise earlier on, but we
didn't really dig dig into exactly what
you mean by exercise cuz exercise, I
think, is multifaceted in its
definition. What kind of exercise should
I be doing to make my ball of tofu in my
head great?
>> Yeah.
>> Optimal.
>> Mhm. Well, all the research shows that
the best kind of exercise that you can
do is anything that gives you aerobic
activity that is getting your heart rate
up. So that that goes for you know power
walking will get your heart rate up. So
soccer so many different things. Name
your activity. So many people want to
say oh my favorite activity will that
work? And I always just say is it is
your heart rate up when you're doing it?
If the answer is yes then yeah that that
works great. We know that that level of
aerobic activity is critical because
that's going to release that growth
factor maximally to get into your
hippocampus uh that will grow those new
brain cells. how much?
>> So, um I have an answer to that. So, um
we did two different experiments in my
lab. One in um low fit people, people
that are really not exercising very much
at all, less than 30 minutes um um in
the last three three weeks you you've uh
moved your body. And um we asked what
could we see any behavioral improvement
in your memory function from your
hippocampus or your uh ability to shift
and focus attention if we ask you to
move your body in an aerobic way for two
to three times a week and we
collaborated with a spin class. So
clearly very aerobic. And what we found
was in those people that did
successfully do two to three times a
week of 45minute aerobic activity, their
mood got significantly better, their
memory function got better, and their
ability to shift and focus attention got
significantly better. So that gives a
little bit of a guideline for low fit
people. Two to three times a week can
start to give you some of those some of
those cognitive changes. But you don't
look low fit. So let me let me answer
the question you're about to ask me with
like what about me? I I exercise pretty
regularly and um how much how much do I
need? So to answer that question, we
went to another spin studio and we said
look, we're going to give you free
classes. You could exercise as much as
you want in this in this um at this
studio and uh um go up to seven times a
week. And the control was just stay the
same. You know, you they were they were
working out twice a week at at the
studio
>> and Troll was the other group that what
you were testing them against.
>> Yes. Exactly.
>> And so what we found was
basically every drop of sweat counted.
The more you exercise, the more change
in your brain. We noted both your
hippocample function, prefrontal
function, and mood. if you you were
already getting benefit, you know,
you're already going twice a week, but
the more you did, the more brain changes
you got. So that that doesn't give the
formula that I would like, but we were
heading in that direction, which is part
of one of the questions that I want to
answer. But I love to leave people with
the idea that every drop of sweat counts
for building your brain into the big fat
fluffy brain that you really want.
And then in the real world, again,
making it super um real for people.
>> Yeah.
>> How how does that change how I show up?
>> Yeah. if you allow it to should have a
beautiful effect on your mindset. Um
that your mindset around um
how often should I take wake up and 30
minutes early and do that walk before I
start my day or uh accept the the
invitation to go uh walk the dog with
with a neighbor. Um it's not an
obligation. It is something that you're
doing for yourself. It is going to have
direct benefits on that ball of tofu, as
you call it, in your head. It's going to
make it work better. And and I mean, I
think the most immediate thing that I
benefit from every single day is the
mood boost that you get from that
serotonin, dopamine, nor adrenaline that
gets released every time you move your
body.
>> I always think that because obviously I
do a lot of podcasting and it's I'm
super reliant on my brain being attached
to my mouth and sometimes I notice that
it's not. You know what I mean? like
sometimes I'm notic
from from your and also I speak on stage
sometimes. So I've often asked myself
cuz I saw Tony Robbins
>> the speaker one day on a trampoline
before he goes up on stage.
>> I ask myself okay should I be doing a
workout in my green room before I go up
on stage for a big talk or presentation?
>> You think I should?
>> Oh yeah absolutely. What's the basis of
that in science and neuroscience?
>> Uh it's the basis is that immediate
effect. So there's three key effects
that we know happen every time you move
your body. First one is mood. You're
going to get your dopamine, your
serotonin up. Um second is focus and
attention. So so a single workout isn't
going to make more synapses in your
prefrontal cortex, but the prefrontal
cortex uses dopamine. And so um it's
clear that even a single workout can
make your prefrontal cortex work better
in terms of focus and attention. Also
very important anytime you're speaking.
And the third is reaction time. Your
reaction time, you know, motor your your
your working your motor cortex when you
move your body. And your response and
reaction time is significantly shorter
after a even a single workout compared
to if you just don't work out and sit
sit um alone. So great great things to
do. A great thing to do before you you
stand up and speak.
>> What about coffee?
>> I I I'm trying to figure out if coffee
is good for my brain, bad for my brain.
I've had a couple of mixed messages
around the impact it might be having.
>> Yeah. You know, caffeine is a stimulant
and uh people respond to that kind of
stimulant uh in different ways. Over
stimulation with caffeine is is not good
for your be able your ability to put
words together. You know, this is where
I turn to a a main theme in in my book
healthy brain happy life with this which
is self-experimentation
for you. How what can you titrate your
coffee to see what level of coffee is
best for whatever your podcast or you're
giving a talk? The other thing that can
work similarly to coffee that that I've
started uh and that I do every morning
is um hot cold contrast showers because
that cold that you shower on yourself
after the heat um stimulates adrenaline
in you. a natural adrenaline. It wakes
you up and okay, it was painful the
first kind of few times I tried it, but
then you get addicted to it and I have
forgotten to do it and gotten back in
the shower just to douse myself with
cold water because I feel better when I
do that for for you know first thing in
the morning. So, lots of different
things that one can explore with. Okay,
on the other side of the coin then, what
are some of the central behaviors that
people do that destroy their brain?
[laughter]
>> Well, sedentary behavior is one of them.
Um, not getting enough sleep is
critical. We haven't talked about sleep
yet. Sleep is so important for normal
functioning of the brain. I like to
scare my students by saying that um you
know in torture situations if you
deprive a person of sleep for too long
they literally die. They they they die.
You cannot function if you are deprived
of sleep for too many hours in a row.
It's that critical. Yet we don't we we
happily, you know, watch too much
Netflix at night and and and and get
only 5 hours of sleep when we could have
had eight. So um what's happening
exactly? Why is it so important? Well,
there's um there's so many different
things. I'm gonna I'm gonna say two. One
is that we know that in regular um um
healthy sleep, there is activity in the
hippocampus that helps you strengthen
the memories that you have formed in
that previous day. It's called
consolidation and it's so important. If
you shorten that, if you don't get
enough, you are not consolidating your
normal everyday memories. And second, it
is uh the time during sleep when all the
metabolites, all that garbage that your
brain is producing because all
biological cells produce garbage, it
gets kind of um cleaned up um through
the cerebral spinal fluid that that is
flowing through your brain. And if you
do not get enough sleep, you build up
garbage metabolites in your brain. It's
like you have a gunky brain. And do you
feel like I feel like I have gunk in my
brain when I don't sleep enough. That is
exactly what is what is happening.
>> Well, when you think about um things
that we consume, you know, like food and
drink and alcohol and all these kinds of
things. Is there is there anything that
if I'm trying to have an optimal brain,
I should be
>> Yeah.
>> having or not having?
>> Yeah. Well, so um I think the most
evidence is around the benefit of the
Mediterranean diet which is basically
all healthy uh um kind of organic not
organic but nonprocessed is the word I
was trying to think of things to eat
that are very very colorful. There is so
much evidence about how good that is
generally for the brain that that is my
go-to. Like what should I eat? Well, is
it on the Mediterranean diet? If it is,
then go ahead. If it's too processed,
>> only do it just a little bit.
>> Is it true that if we have less friends,
if we have less strong relationships, if
we're lonely,
>> then our brain will shrink and is more
prone to dementia and Alzheimer's and
things like that. Yes, we are social
creatures and um there are uh really
powerful studies that have shown the
correlation between the number of social
connections that we have including just
saying hello to the barista at
Starbucks. It's not a close friendship
that you develop over 30 years. It's
it's just how many people you interact
with and greet and longevity. The more
people you are regularly interacting
with, the longer you are living overall
longevity. But if you go into brain
health, absolutely it's also very very
healthy for you. It also brings
happiness. So uh friend and colleague of
mine um Robert Wallinger uh studied um
what makes people happy. The study
started in the 20s, the 1920s and in
Harvard. And after all of those many
many many decades, the answer is what
brings happiness is the strength of your
social connections. So it makes you
happier. It makes you live longer and
and uh yes, loneliness on the on the um
flip side causes stress uh long-term
stress that that damages the brain and
uh yeah, in the long term can can make
it smaller and uh less healthy.
>> Here's the fifth most replayed moment.
When I asked you before this
conversation started rolling what you're
really excited about at the moment, your
response to me was there was a few
things, but one of them which lit up
your face was creatine.
>> Yes. And it's funny because
>> it lit up your face again.
>> Yeah. It's it's funny because creatine
has been around for I mean ever for
decades and it's always been in my mind
it was like one of those gym bro things.
I'm like I don't need to be swole.
>> Yeah.
>> I don't need creatine get get swole. And
you know this is this was the thought
for for many many years. And then over
the last five years or so,
the effects of creatine on the brain
started to really get my interest.
Anything that affects the brain, I
really become interested in. And so
that's kind of what did get me the most
excited about about creatine. But also,
I started doing a lot of resistance
training. And so I was like, "Okay, here
I am now. I'm like one of those gym
guys. I'm doing I'm doing the barbells.
I'm doing the, you know, the squats and
the deadlifts and all that and so, so
why not give myself some of the
creatine? Well, what is creatine, right?
Why is it important? You talked about
earlier, you know, why doesn't our body
just make more of these things that are
so beneficial? We do make creatine. We
make about, I don't know, our liver
makes about 1 to three grams a day of
creatine. And our brain also makes
creatine and those are the two organs
that make it. Creatine gets consumed by
other tissues like the muscle is
probably the one that's the greediest
because creatine is stored as
phosphocreatine but it's used to make
energy essentially. So it can increase
muscle mass, it can increase muscle
strength in combination with resistance
training because you're able to
regenerate and make energy faster. So,
for example, I became interested in it
after reading studies where people that
supplemented with creatine that were
engaged in resistance training were able
to gain more lean body mass. They were
able to gain more strength. It was
increasing their training volume. So,
you can do one to two more reps, right,
of of whatever exercise you're doing.
And it seems to decrease the recovery
time between those those sets as well.
So, you're able to increase your
training volume. Well, anything that's
going to in increase your training
volume is going to then have the
downstream effect of, you know,
increasing the adaptations like
increased muscle mass or increased
muscle strength. I started supplementing
with creatine about a year ago and I
started supplementing with it for that
reason, for the my training and I was
doing about five grams a day because
that was really what was shown to to be
beneficial for muscle health in
combination with resistance training.
And it's important for people to realize
that supplementing with creatine by
itself, without any type of resistance
training, isn't going to grow your
muscle. It's not going to make you
stronger. You have to put in the effort
because what creatine is doing, it's
helping you make the energy quicker,
right? And that and then being able to
make that energy quicker means that
you're able to then do that exercise
better, um, harder, more of it, right?
[clears throat] So, um, it's sort of sup
supercharging your exercise routine.
I had already been aware of the effects
on the brain. I thought maybe the five
grams a day would do that. So what are
the effects on the brain? Well, your
brain also consumes a lot of energy, you
know, needs a lot of energy. So it does
make its own creatine. But it turns out
if you can if you can give your brain
more of that creatine particularly under
a period of anything that's causing
stress. So let's say lack of sleep or
let's say emotional psychological stress
or in my case high cognitive load where
you're just every day learning concepts,
complex things. you're trying to
remember them. You're putting ideas
together and coming up with new
hypotheses and you know, you're just
you're just you're studying a lot and
it's very cognitively demanding and it's
it's a type of stress on your brain.
That's like my life, right? Um under
this condition of stress, depression is
another one that's a stress on your
brain or neurodeenerative disease,
that's a stress on your brain. So any
kind of stressful condition,
that's where creatine shines in the
brain. I would argue that um all of us
who who has the perfect amount of sleep
never has stress nobody, right? There's
always some sort of stress in the
background. So, um that's when I was
like, okay, so if you're the perfect
person, you have no stress, you get the
perfect amount of sleep every night,
your brain makes enough creatine to kind
of do what it needs to do. I know that
I'm constantly under stress. So, um I'm
like, okay, well, I think I need a
boost. And this is where a lot of very
interesting studies have come out of
many different labs. Um, some out of
Germany that looked at the dose of
creatine and how it increases creatine
levels in the brain. And this is why I
now supplement with 10 grams a day. So
the study out of Germany
found that five grams a day of creatine,
if you're supplementing with five grams
a day, your muscles are greedily
consuming it. Particularly if you're
working out, they want it. They want it.
after about five grams a day, especially
over a few months, like you're you're
saturating your muscle and that's
enough, right? Anything above that kind
of spills over to the brain. And so they
what this German study found was that 10
grams of creatine increased creatine
levels in several different regions of
the brain. And that was probably the
most exciting, you know, I would say
evidence that supplementing higher than
five grams a day was actually doing
something in terms of getting creatine
into the brain.
There have now been a variety of studies
that have looked at different outcomes,
right? So, if you supplement with 10
grams of creatine or even go higher than
that, like 20 grams of creatine, how
does that affect cognitive function,
right? And so, um some of these studies
have been been done by uh Dr. Darren
Kandow. He's um at the University of
Regina in Canada and it's looked they've
looked at things like sleep deprivation
and it's been found that if you take
someone and you sleep deprive them for
21 hours and give them about 25 to 30
grams of creatine, it completely negates
the cognitive deficits of sleep
deprivation. Actually, not only does it
negate the cognitive deficits of sleep
deprivation, it makes people function
better than if they were well-rested.
That's where I was like, wait a minute,
there's many times when I'm traveling,
I'm jet-lagged. Uh lots of times when
I'm sleepd deprived and I have to be
doing a podcast or a presentation,
whatever. And in those situations, I go
up from my 10 grams to more like 20
grams. Today, for example, I wasn't
really sleepdeprived, but you know,
there's a lot of high cognitive demand.
This is a long podcast. There's all that
stuff. And so, I went up to 20 grams
today on my creatine. And I well, I will
say even at the 10 gram for me, we were
talking about this with respect to being
in ketosis.
I don't feel that mid-after afternoon
crash when I have the creatine, not
being on a ketogenic diet, not being in
ketosis. It's very clear for me and I've
done this where sometimes I only do five
grams and then if I do that I'll notice
I'm like why am I tired right now? So
there's something interesting and maybe
it's placebo. I'm going to throw that
out there. Very possible. But I don't
know maybe the creatine is again it's
able to regenerate that energy quicker
and so that's also beneficial for the
brain. And now I I would say all these
creatine researchers a lot of them are
shifting to the brain. It used to be all
muscle focused and now people are super
interested in what creatine is doing to
the brain, especially if you're
supplementing with more of it. And you
know, this is important for people that
are under a stressful situation, but
also for vegans because creatine is
found in food, mostly in animal products
like meat and poultry and fish, dairy. A
lot of vegans don't eat that. And I've
had so many of my vegan friends,
I've got them on the creatine, and it's
changed their lives. I mean, they're
like, "This is like incredible." You
know, can you imagine someone who's not
getting any creatine from their diet cuz
they eat no meat and all of a sudden
they start supplementing with 5 10 grams
of creatine and it's like they have
energy. Some people say they they
require less sleep, which is kind of
interesting. That's kind of a comment
I've heard many many times from people
is that it's like their brain doesn't
need as much sleep. They have more
energy. So, um, I've been a big fan of
the creatine, um, not only for the
muscle especially because, you know,
working out is something that's very
important, but for the brain as well.
I always thought of creatine as
something that you you took and you kind
of had to load up on and then over a
couple of weeks or months, the effects
would kick in. But you're telling me
that if I had creatine in the morning,
that same day, I would experience
potentially improved cognition if I have
a big enough dose.
>> Yes. So, um, great question. A lot of
studies that have been done that you're
referring to have been done in the
context of exercise and muscular
performance. And the reason why people
have to load up on like they do a
loading phase, let's say 20 grams and
then they go down to this sort of
maintenance phase of 5 g is because it
takes I don't know, I think it's about a
month or so before you can saturate your
muscular stores of creatine. And then
>> what does that mean? It means that um
the creatine which is actually stored in
your muscle as phosphocreatine is there
and ready to be used to make energy. So
so it takes again it takes about a month
or so to do that unless you are really
giving your muscles a high dose, right?
So the five grams a day it only it can
only do it for so many days and then
finally you get saturated. When you do
this loading phase you kind of just
accelerate that whole process. And so
that's why when people are doing these
experiments where they want to test the
effects of creatine, they want they want
the participants to have really high
levels of creatine in their muscles
quick because they don't want to do a
month-long experiment, right? They want
the experiment to be like a couple of
weeks or a week. So [snorts] that was
kind of the whole concept behind this
loading phase. If you're not someone
who's going to some kind of competition,
you know, like your CrossFit games or
something, you don't really need to do
that loading phase if you've already
been supplementing with five grams a day
for like a month. When it comes to the
brain, what's happening if you get above
that 5 g, that's pretty much all
consumed by the muscle. You're having
some leftover in circulation and the
brain takes it up and it takes it up,
right? When it re what it really shines
is under that stressful condition, which
again for me, I feel like every day is
this is is like cognitively demanding
for me because I'm constantly, you know,
learning new material or learning new
information or working on things, right?
And so there's a lot of cognitive stress
on my brain. And so I feel like I'm
constantly under that stress. And that's
where getting the creatine in your brain
helps you make that energy quicker. And
so that's why like I've done I've had,
you know, been jetlagged and have have
to give a talk at you, you know, like
5:00 a.m. in the morning, my my
biological time after not getting sleep.
And I've done like 25 grams of creatine.
And it it's insane how much it helps me.
Again, it could be placebo because I'm
anticipating that effect, which is fine.
Placebo is a real thing. It's great. I'm
all about it. But there's some evidence
also that this works, right? That the
creatine is helping with under that
sleep deprivation and that stressful
condition.
>> I was reading about a study in 2025
where they
gave creatine to people that had
depressive symptoms alongside CBT
training. And the people that had
creatine and the cognitive behavioral
therapy training experienced a greater
improvement in their depression symptoms
than those who just received the
cognitive behavioral therapy, which is
which is incredible.
>> It's fascinating. I mean, depression is
a type of brain stress, right? I mean,
we know inflammation plays a role in in
depression. We know oxidative stress
plays a role in depression. And there
have now been some animal studies that
have shown creatine is somehow having an
anti-inflammatory effect. I that hasn't
all been worked out. So I don't know if
it's all just the energy component of
it. It could also be this other sort of
newly identified role that creatine is
playing in sort of having an
anti-inflammatory effect. And I don't
know much enough about that. I don't
know that there's enough even known
about that. But I do know that it
exists. And it's fascinating because
again I think where creatine really
shines in the brain and it's been shown
study after study is under some kind of
stressful condition depression or sleep
deprivation or there's a new study that
came out it was published I don't know a
month ago or so showing that it was a
very small pilot study and I want to
caveat this there was no placebo control
but it did show that giving people with
Alzheimer's disease creatine I believe
it was 20 grams a day did improve their
cognition. And so again, this is a whole
new field where now we're looking at
creatine in the brain, not just the gym
bro Bros and not just the muscular
effects, but in the brain and how it's
affecting the brain and being beneficial
for cognition, for brain aging, for
depression.
>> Here's the fourth most replayed moment.
One of the most inspiring and I think
liberating things that I've heard in
your work is this idea of
neuroplasticity. Because if you're if
the brain can physiologically change
based on what I'm doing, then it means
that who I am now, my identity, that 16
that 19-year-old who's sleeping in the
mummy thing with the ferret isn't who I
always have to be. I can literally
change. Um, we've spoken a little bit
around like what causes the motivation
to actually change, but knowing that
there's a my brain will actually change.
Those two things are really inspiring
for me because it means that whatever
rut I'm stuck in isn't necessarily a
permanent one. Now, you said that the
motivation to change comes from fear.
>> Well, in my case, it took a a fear
circumstance, fear of becoming a
permanent failure.
>> Yeah.
>> To motivate immense change. And um uh
that was that circumstance. I I do
believe however that the best work, our
most creative and best work comes from a
love of craft. But sometimes in order to
find what you truly love, you have to be
scared into setting off on a path to
find it. So neuroplasticity
is absolutely real. But if the question
is can a person change, can you learn
new things? Can you unlearn certain
patterns? Can you overcome traumas at
any age? The answer is absolutely
categorically yes. How? Well, it's very
clear that as a child until about age
25, more or less just passive experience
will shape the brain for better or
worse. After about age 25, and again
these are not strict cut offs,
we can change our brain. But what's
required is a marketked shift in the
neurochemical environment under which
something happens. So one of the reasons
why any traumatic event will forever be
remembered although by the way you can
remove some of the emotional load of
that trauma does not have to be
traumatic forever
is because when we see or experience
something very intense of a fearful
nature there is the release of certain
what we call neurom modulators things
like epinephrine adrenaline and other
neurom modulators that cause a state
shift in our broad body and brain And
the nervous system recognizes this as
unusual and as a consequence in the
subsequent days there's reordering of
the connections so that the brain can
prepare for that event should it happen
again. This is why we have what's called
one trial learning. You go to a certain
location, something terrible happens
there, you will forever associate that
location with something terrible. But
there are tools, therapy and other tools
that can allow the emotional load to be
removed from that so that you could go
to that location and feel calm, no fear
whatsoever. The good news is you can
also learn anything you want to learn
provided there's a shift in this
neurochemical environment. This is why
when we are very interested and focused
on something, two of the main
requirements for neuroplasticity, we
have to be alert and we have to be
focused. We can't learn passively as
adults. We can't just play um you know a
a lecture about AI and large language
models or neuroscience in the room and
then it just the knowledge doesn't just
sink in by osmosis.
But if we pay attention and we're alert
when we pay attention
there's a shift in the neurochemicals
associated with that attention. What we
call the catacolamines. It's three
molecules dopamine, epinephrine and
norepinephrine. All which cause an
increase in alertness. all which cause
an increase in focus, a tightening of
our visual field and our auditory field.
So like cones of attention is one way to
think about it. And then it sets in
motion a bunch of biological processes
such that if we get adequate sleep that
night, maybe the next night as well,
there's reordering of neural connection
so that that knowledge, that new
experience is consolidated in your
brain. You are forever changed as a
consequence of that experience. So when
we hear that the brain is constantly
changing, everything that we encounter
changes our brain, that's not true. Why
would the brain change unless it needed
to, right? As a child, the brain is
basically a template for change. It's
it's trying to understand the
environment and make predictions. And so
that's true. Neuroplasticity is is a
cardinal feature of of childhood and
adolescence and the teen years. Just
think about the music you listen to when
you were a teen. No other music will
ever have as much significance. And
that's because as a teen your body is
flooded with hormones and neurom
modulators that the amount of meaning
that comes from now seemingly trivial
events when you're a teenager or
adolescent is immense. That song meant
so much and it's because of the
neurochemical meu it creates in you. But
as an adult it takes a stronger stimulus
as we say. The nervous system is very um
efficient in that way. It doesn't change
unless it has to and it always changes
if it needs to in order to keep you
safe. This is why there's an asymmetric
influence of fear as opposed to um just
interest in terms of what will shift our
brain. But it's nice to know that love
and excitement and appreciation are very
strong stimula for changing the brain.
From everything we know about
neuroscience, it's clear that doesn't
matter if you're 90 years old, 70 years
old, 50 years old, if you want to learn,
you can learn. And that learning occurs
through neuroplasticity, which is the
reordering of neural connections,
strengthening of certain connections,
weakening of others, and in some rare
cases, the addition of new neurons. But
you absolutely can change your brain,
but you have to pay attention to the
thing you want to incorporate into your
brain. You have to be alert while you do
that. And then you absolutely have to go
get some rest because it's during sleep
and during meditative states and during
rest that the actual rewiring of the
brain occurs.
>> You know, every once in a while you come
across a product that has such a huge
impact on your life that you'd probably
describe as a gamecher. And I would say
for about 35 to 40% of my team, they
would currently describe this product
that I have in front of me called Ketone
IQ, which you can get at ketone.com
as a game changer. But the reason I
became a co-owner of this company and
the reason why they they now are a
sponsor of this podcast is because one
day when I came to work, there was a box
of this stuff sat on my desk. I had no
idea what it was. Lily in my team says
that this company have been in touch. So
I went upstairs, tried it, and quite
frankly, the rest is history. in terms
of my focus, my energy levels, how I
feel, how I work, how productive I am.
Game changer. So, if you want to give it
a try, visit ketone.com/stephven
for 30% off. You'll also get a free gift
with your second shipment. And now you
can find Keton IQ at Target stores
across the United States, where your
first shot is completely free of charge.
All I had to do was brain dump. Imagine
if you had someone with you at all times
that could take the ideas you have in
your head, synthesize them with AI to
make them sound better and more
grammatically correct and write them
down for you. This is exactly what
Whisper Flow is in my life. It is this
thought partner that helps me explain
what I want to say. And it now means
that on the go, when I'm alone in my
office, when I'm out and about, I can
respond to emails and Slack messages and
WhatsApps and everything across all of
my devices just by speaking. I love this
tool. And I started talking about this
on my behindthescenes channel a couple
of months back. And then the founder
reached out to me and said, "We're
seeing a lot of people come to our tour
because of you." So, we'd love to be a
sponsor. We'd love you to be an investor
in the company. And so, I signed up for
both of those offers. And I'm now an
investor and a huge partner in a company
called Whisper Flow. You have to check
it out. Whisper Flow is four times
faster than typing. So, if you want to
give it a try, head over to
whisperflow.ai/ac
to get started for free. And you can
find that link to Whisper Flow in the
description below. There are a few
sports that I make time for, no matter
where I am in the world. And one of them
is, of course, football. The other is
MMA, but watching that abroad usually
requires a VPN. I spend so much time
traveling. I've just spent the last 2
and 1/2 months traveling through Asia
and Europe and now back here in the
United States. And as I'm traveling,
there are so many different shows that I
want to watch on TV or on some streaming
websites. So when I was traveling
through Asia and I was in Koala Lumpur
one day, then the next day I was in Hong
Kong and the next day I was in
Indonesia, all of those countries had a
different streaming provider, a
different broadcaster. And so in most of
those countries I had to rely on
ExpressVPN who are sponsor of this
podcast. Their tool is private and
secure and it's very very simple how it
works. When you're in that country and
you want to watch a show that you love
in the UK, all you do is you go on there
and you click the button UK and it means
that you can gain access to content in
the UK. If you're after a similar
solution in your life and you've
experienced that problem too, visit
expressvpn.com/duac
to find out how you can access
ExpressVPN for an extra 4 months at no
cost.
Here is the third most replayed moment.
For those people who have just clicked
to listen to this conversation, can you
tell them the mission you're on and why
it's so important?
>> Yeah. Well, thanks so much for having
this conversation with me. I think that
illustrates the problem, right? someone
as informed as you don't know anything
or never heard of nitric oxide. So,
>> it's important for us to just make a
distinction between um like nitric gas
that people, you know, inhale and that
used if you played like uh some of those
racing car games, you press a button and
the car goes really fast. If you
>> That's nitrous nitrous.
>> These are two separate things.
>> No, very Yeah, very good point. So, this
is not nitrous oxide. Nitrous oxide is I
mean a medicine is a dental anesthetic,
right? It's a gas. It's called laughing
gas. That's N2O. That's the chemical
formula. What we're talking about is
nitric oxide or NO. One nitrogen, one
oxygen. This molecule is is foundational
for human health and longevity. So
nitric oxide is a gas. It's a naturally
produced molecule. It's a signaling
molecule in the human body. And so it's
it regulates things like blood flow and
oxygen delivery. And it mobilizes our
own stem cells to help us recover and
repair and replace dysfunctional cells.
it uh improves energy production inside
the cell and it regulates blood flow. So
nitric oxide is a gas. It's produced in
the endthelium. So the endothelium is
the single layer of cells that line
every blood vessel throughout the body.
So the function of these endothelial
cells is to regulate vascular tone and
to regulate you know solute exchange and
extravisation or transport of molecules
across that endothelial layer. And so
when your endthelial cells can no longer
make nitric oxide gas, they no longer
dilate. So the blood vessels become
constricted. You start to get
inflammation. You get stiff arteries,
plaque deposition, and that's what
starts cardiovascular disease
orthoscerosis.
>> So let me get this straight. I'll repeat
back to you what I think I understand
about nitric oxide. And you tell me if
it's accurate. So this nitric oxide is a
chemical that is in all the blood cells
of my body and it allows my blood cells
to basically expand open up so blood can
flow through there. So if I
>> it dilates it dilates the smooth muscle.
So it's not affecting
>> the cells per se but it's dilating the
smooth muscle that surrounds the blood
vessels which leads to re relaxation and
dilation.
>> Fine. So my blood cells would then
expand
>> your blood vessels
>> and more blood would go through there.
But if I'm deficient, that mechanism
doesn't work and my blood cells wouldn't
expand ultimately expand through the
relaxation of the muscles.
>> That's right.
>> And therefore, I would have higher blood
pressure, which can lead to a series of
downstream diseases and consequences.
And so when we look at the graph that I
showed a second ago where we're seeing
for anyone that can't see this graph
because you're listening on audio, we're
seeing
nitric oxide levels in young people up
to the age of roughly around 20 are
optimal. And then from about 30 to 70,
there's this tremendous sort of 80 90%
drop. in terms of chronic disease that
is downstream from me losing nitric
oxide level. Can you give me a bit of a
menu of chronic disease that is
associated with this nitric oxide
deficiency?
>> Yep.
We've touched on them. So erectile
dysfunction. So in erections in both men
and women are dependent upon dilation of
the blood vessels to get engorgment to
get increase in blood flow. And that's
what an erection is. And we call that
the canary in the coal mine because for
years people thought it was a lifestyle
disorder. Right.
>> Well, erectile dysfunction.
>> Yeah. But now it's recognized that it's
a symptom of loss of nitric oxide and
really an accelerated form of
cardiovascular disease,
>> high blood pressure, metabolic disease,
and diabetes. And then the other one is
uh obviously Alzheimer's because
Alzheimer's is a vascular disease. And
nitric oxide corrects every single thing
we know about Alzheimer's. It improves
blood flow to the brain. It improves
glucose uptake. So, it overcomes the
metabolic aspect of Alzheimer's. It
reduces inflammation. In fact, a number
of my patents on a method of reducing
inflammation. It inhibits the oxidative
stress we see in in Alzheimer's and
neurological disease. And it prevents
the immune dysfunction. And when you do
that, when you restore blood flow and
you get nutrients and oxygen in and you
take out the metabolic waste products,
there's no misfolding of protein. So,
you don't get the amaloid plaque, you
don't get the tangles. So this simple
molecule nitric oxide gas I'm absolutely
convinced will eradicate and cure
Alzheimer's
>> really
>> because it it addresses every
physiological root cause of Alzheimer's
>> if you can get it administered
therapeutically to patients early enough
or
>> no I think that's a very key because the
success or failure of any clinical trial
any drug in any clinical trial is
dependent upon the design of the
clinical trial and what patients at what
stage of disease that you enroll these
patients. So what are the inclusion
criteria and what are the exclusion
criteria
and there's a stage in every disease
whether it's heart disease, kidney
disease, Alzheimer's where you've
reached a point of no return. There's
really no medical therapy that's going
to reverse that disease because it's
progressed to a state that's
irreversible. So I think what we try to
do is take
take patients early in the process what
we call vascular dementia mild cognitive
impairment early Alzheimer's because
what I want to be able to demonstrate is
two things number one can we stop the
progression of disease once it's started
can we stop the progression and then
number two is we want to enroll patients
far enough along to where we can show
regression so can you move can you move
the needle back and so That's a very
kind of a specific and finite patient
population. When you design a clinical
study, number one, at the at the
absolute worst, we want to stop
progression. At the absolute best, we
want to show that we can regress
disease. And that's the goal of therapy
is that you understand the mechanism of
disease to the extent that you can treat
it, you can prevent it, you can reverse
it, and you can cure it. When I think
about the role that food plays in my
nitric oxide production, what should I
be eating to increase um my nitric oxide
levels or to keep them at a healthy
level?
>> I think it the same answer is for that
too. It's it's not so much what we
should be eating, it's what we should
not be eating.
>> Okay?
>> So, we we'll we'll cover those step by
step. Number one, you have to avoid
sugar and high glycemic index foods
because sugar is a toxin. It's a poison.
And let's think about what sugar is. So
when we eat sugar or drink sugar
beverages, right? Whether it's sucrose,
whether it's fructose, whether it's high
fructose corn syrup, the end result
inside the human is we see an increase
in glucose. So elevation in blood sugar
or blood glucose is diabetes, right? And
now there's continuous glucose monitors
that you can get anywhere and everybody
does this. So if you eat something and
it causes an increase in your blood
sugar, blood glucose, then you should
avoid that because glucose as the name
implies is glue, right? It's sticky. And
if we if you have a soda and you spill
it on your countertop, you come back the
next day, it's sticky, right? Well,
that's what happens inside the body.
That sugar sticks to everything. It
sticks to proteins. It sticks to
enzymes.
>> And it lowers nitric oxide production.
>> Absolutely. That's why diabetics have a
10 times higher incidence of heart
attack, stroke, all cause mortality
mortality. That's why they develop neur
neurological or peripheral neuropathy.
That's why they have non-healing wounds.
There's no nitric oxide. That's why
they're developing diabetic retinopathy,
macular degeneration, pancreatitis. I
mean, all of that can be traced back to
a lack of nitric oxide production
because the sugar is stuck to the
enzyme. The sugar destroys the oral
microbiome and completely changes the
the ecology of the bacteria and
completely shuts down nitric oxide
production. Right? But I think to answer
your question, what should we be eating?
I think you've got to eat a balanced
diet in moderation. You know, Americans
are overfed. All you got to do is walk
around and see the the epidemic of
obesity. good high quality protein, good
quality fats, and little or no carbs.
And it's really that simple.
>> Here's the second most replayed moment.
When you think about behaviors and
habits that are popular and trendy at
the moment, are there any that stand out
to you as being particularly good for
the brain or particularly bad for the
brain? Cuz I had a couple come to mind
that I wanted to throw at you. I mean,
one of them that's exploding in the UK
at the moment is paddle, which is kind
of I think you call it pickle ball here.
[snorts] Good for my brain, bad for my
brain. It's so good for your brain
because
it's working your cerebellum. And I told
you that because yours was sleepy
and as you activate this and you do that
with coordination exercises, it then
activates your frontal loes. Does that
mean that people that are uncoordinated
have a cerebellum issue?
>> Yes.
>> Oh, really?
>> Okay.
>> And the more you do it, the better
coordination you develop.
>> And that's why coordination exercises
for kids. So, we talked about kids is
you want to do that with them early.
Play sports, but not sports where
they're going to get a head injury,
right? I mean, we have to be smarter
than we are. Um, but when I was young,
my mother, who's now 93, was the
pingpong champion in the neighborhood,
and she was really good, and she never
let us beat her until we could
>> and but she was always encouraging.
I've got um I was looking then as you
were speaking about different trends at
the moment that are either good or bad
for the brain. And one big trend at the
moment is neuroplasticity training. Lots
of people are doing games and using
other things to like there's apps you
can get that are neuroplasticity
training apps. Does any of that stuff
work?
>> Some of it.
>> Some of it works. And if you're so for
example, if you're doing memorization
games, do them while you're on the bike.
Now, not in the street, but if you're on
a stationary bike and
you're doing those games, it's been
found that exercise
increases blood flow to the hippocampus,
meaning you're more likely to remember
it and you're strengthening your brain
in the process. So, exercise with new
learning.
Stunning. So if I want to learn
something, I should do it while walking
or moving in motion,
>> right? So if you're listening to a
language app, for example, do it while
you're walking.
>> Mindfulness and meditation, good or bad
for the brain.
>> Great. I published three studies on a
condundolini yoga form of meditation
called kin crea. It's a 12minute
meditation. I always say it's the
perfect ADD meditation because it's only
12 minutes. And for 12 minutes you do
this. Sa
m saw
saw.
It's two minutes out loud, two minutes
whispering, four minutes silently to
yourself.
2 minutes whispering, 2 minutes out
loud, you're done. Satan ma, birth,
life, death, reborn. Birth, life, death,
reborn. But the one we studied is sat na
ma. And so if they look it up, kitin
crea um activates your cerebellum,
activates your frontal loes, calms down
your emotional brain. People who did
that for 12 minutes for 8 weeks, their
resting frontal lobe function was
stronger.
So simple.
>> What the hell is going on there?
I think it's the focused attention plus
you're doing a coordination meditation s
no s
>> loving your job good or bad for the
brain
>> absolutely great for your brain if
you're learning new things people who
are in a job that does not require new
learning have a higher incidence of
Alzheimer's disease So if you're
stagnant in your work, you have a higher
risk of
>> Alzheimer's. And like if I just read
brain scans all day, well, I know how to
do it. I'm not learning anything new.
So I do that,
but I also am writing about something I
don't know about. Um, or I'm learning
something new.
>> What if you're working with
>> I'm sorry.
>> I love the job, but I'm working with
>> Bad for your brain. Chronic stress
[snorts]
increases cortisol. And I think
everybody should sort of know their
baseline cortisol level
and cortisol shrinks the hippocampus
and puts fat on your belly. So that's
two very bad things for your brain.
>> Breath work. That's a big trap.
>> Excellent. Excellent. You want to break
a panic attack?
The 15-second breath. 4 seconds in, hold
it for a second and a half. Eight
seconds out, hold it for a second and a
half. You just do that four or five
times, your whole nervous system will
calm down. And the research shows take
twice as long to breathe out as you
breathe in. That's why 4 seconds in, 8
seconds out.
>> It shifts your nervous system, doesn't
it?
>> Yes. It increases something called
veagal tone.
>> Okay. Some bad things then. Social media
usage. Chronic social media usage. Good
for the brain, bad for the brain.
>> Because you're constantly comparing
yourself to people who aren't real.
>> What about workcoholism and hustle
culture?
>> So,
I love my work.
Am I addicted to it? I don't know. But I
love it.
When they say people are workaholics and
it's bad for the brain, it's they're
working
with
or doing something they don't like or
doing it for the money but without
other purpose.
>> Microplastics, that's a big
>> awful for the brain. One of the major
causes of hormone disruption and cancer.
and other environment.
>> Thank you for not giving me a plastic
water bottle. Yeah,
>> it's okay. Imagine imagine if we did
that when we spend a long a lot of time
these days talking about the
microplastics and other environmental
toxins that I think people are becoming
more aware of now which is good noise
pollution
bad for the brain and if if it hurts
your hearing hearing loss is actually
one of the risk factors for Alzheimer's.
Why is that? I did a I did a
>> Because you're not getting input, right?
>> And if you're not getting appropriate
input,
your brain starts to atrophy.
And if you don't hear what other people
are saying and you have a lot of ants,
you have a high negativity bias is you
can actually begin to get a bit paranoid
and fill in the empty spaces with
negativity.
I just bought some new Apple AirPods and
when I connected them to my phone, it
said, "You want to do a hearing test?"
So, I did the hearing test and then I
asked my girlfriend, I said, "You should
do this hearing test as well." Cuz I
needed something to compare it to. And I
was a little bit shocked. Um, it said I
hadn't lost any hearing yet, but my
hearing was significantly not as good as
hers. And I remember thinking, gosh,
you know, this is, but I didn't have any
idea that it was linked to Alzheimer's
at all. So now I've turned down the
volume for the first time in my life
because I think your hearing declines
regardless really of what you do with
age anyway. Um but as you said earlier
like starting from a better baseline
when you're talking about the brain
reserves is really the game I think with
aging. My last point is uh my last
question is a bit of a
seems to be uncorrelated but the world
is heading towards a world that's driven
by artificial intelligence. It's like
all the all the rage at the moment if
you log on the internet. People talking
about they're going to lose their jobs.
All of these new tools that allow us to
optimize our lives in a variety of
different ways. When you think about the
world of AI that we're heading into,
there's so many ways that I imagine it's
going to make your job easier as someone
who's doing scans of brains and so on.
But do you think artificial intelligence
is going to be good or bad for our
brains?
I think in the short run it's going to
be bad because
your brain is going to do less and
that's bad for the brain. I I think it's
fascinating to watch what's going to
happen. And ultimately, in the words of
my friend Byron Katy, argue with
reality, welcome to hell.
We need to figure out how to use it to
enhance our lives rather than to steal
brain development.
>> Here's the first most replayed moment.
There was a study done in 2007 that
showed Can't even say it.
>> Curcumin.
>> That shows curcumin upregulates anti-
oxidant defenses and downregulates
oxidative stress.
>> Yeah. There was a study done in 2016
which is a meta analysis of random
control trials found curcuminium
comparable to ibuprofen in terms of pain
relief.
>> Yeah, there there's a lot of work on
curcumin and turmeric. As I said, a lot
of people get confused because they
think the it only works if you absorb it
into the blood and I'm saying that
actually you don't. What you do is you
work with the microbiome to make it
useful. And there's early preclinical
studies taking place around the impact
it can have with cancers. And there's
promising but early studies showing the
impact that curcumin that comes from
turmeric can have on brain health.
>> Yes. Well, that's uh focus is switching
on to the blood supply to the brain.
What we call the vascular effects on the
brain. And there's something that we
used to call the blood brain barrier
which you've probably heard of which is
seen to be the place where the barrier
that stops a lot of stuff entering the
brain and potentially upsetting it. We
now know this bloodb brain barrier is a
very dynamic interesting interface
between the brains tissue and the rest
of us. It's now called the
neurovvascular unit, NVU.
And it is so exciting. And the more we
look at it so far, the more we find that
the things that help the neurovvascular
unit, the bloodb brain barrier are
plants. And we have green tea. And you
know we can if you if you really want to
help um our brain health regular
drinking of green tea you know
is been shown to be really useful. Not
that rather than the supplement by the
way is the drink that you have
>> [clears throat]
>> um oh I put it in here right so we can
make it.
So as you make that can you explain to
me why green tea is a good idea
>> because it contains a number of again
polyphenols
>> and polyphenols are those
>> are these colors
>> these colors yeah
>> in this case it's green obviously and me
green tea is just the smoked unprocessed
part of the tea leaf it's a plant called
chameleia senses um
so this is nice Japanese teapot. That's
the sort of thing you'd have green tea
in. And these are the mugs, but we've
filled these up already with uh ginger
and cinnamon. So, let's let's leave it
for a moment, but we can while it's
sitting there for a while. There are a
number of these polyphenols in green tea
that seem to be particularly
effective in modulating that barrier. We
talked about the neurovvascular unit
between the brain and the rest of us.
And um there's all sorts of reasons why
regular consumption of green tea seems
to be linked to less of this sort of
trouble.
>> What what sort of trouble?
>> The dementia type problems, the
cognitive decline as they get older.
>> Do they find that in cultures where they
drink a lot of green tea, they have less
dementia?
>> Yeah. But that doesn't mean there's a
cause and effect. So you need a few
other things to establish that. What
we're finding is that other plants have
very likely powerful effects in this
area. And I mentioned the rosemary. Now
all you need to do to appreciate
rosemary is to press it and sniff.
>> Oh, it smells so good. Really nice.
>> That's not just nice because what you're
doing there is you're inhaling volatile
oils,
>> the things that give the smell.
>> And when you're inhaling,
they're literally going into your brain
because part of the brain actually
reaches the outside world. It's called
the alactory lobe. And when you inhale
something, it literally moves into the
brain and from there into the lyic
system. Remember there's a line in a
Shakespeare play called Hamlet Ailia
the young lady says rosemary that's for
remembrance
>> because everyone knew that this improved
cognitive functions and when I was in
working on our campus in Maryland we
actually did a clinical trial with
rosemary in people with struggling with
their crosswords you know as they get
older and found that although it wasn't
a conclusive study there were pointers
to it's improving cognitive or
performance in those people and there's
been other studies since that re that
reinforce that. I would say that
rosemary is one of the ones to watch in
terms of long-term brain health. There's
another remedy called GKO that a lot of
people know about which is used as a
prescription medicine in Europe uh for
cardiovascular problems and that's been
shown to be likely useful and using the
same sort of mechanisms as as we've seen
here and with the green tea. I'll check
it here. Yeah, that looks all right.
You see, it's more yellow than green,
but uh
and this is flavored with a little bit
of mint to make it a little more
agreeable. Sometimes people find green
tea is not their favorite taste. Green
tea is rich in polyphenols, um which are
linked to benefits ranging from heart
and brain health to fat loss and cancer
prevention.
>> It's got a nice minty flavor.
>> Yeah.
>> You can live with that, couldn't you?
>> Yeah. Yeah,
>> my girlfriend again, she she's all over
this stuff. She's always bloody right.
>> Well, you know that learned that lesson
a long time ago.
>> I know, right? Like I say it all the
time on this podcast, but she's always
like 2, three years ahead of what then
someone really, really smart comes and
tells me and I spend those two or three
years in denial. I'm like, what the
is she like doing over there? Don't get
me started on cacao. If you start
talking to me about cacao, no, no, no,
no, no. She's been telling me
>> I'm gonna I'm gonna nail this because
there's a lot of people listening who
will want to hear this. Okay,
>> Coco. Yeah,
>> chocolate, dark chocolate is a medicine.
End of
one of the best medicines around is 50 g
or 100 g of 75% or more dark chocolate.
Do you know what I've just realized? My
girlfriend, she's going to live till
she's 150 because she all she eats 90%
or something 80% dark chocolate. She
drinks green tea all day. She has
the ginger and cinnamon drinks all day.
She eats the the full rainbow.
>> She should be stepping in for you.
>> I know. I I know. Exactly.
>> No, Coco. Seriously,
brain health as well,
>> cardiovascular [clears throat] health.
>> I mean, they just they do studies where
they've put coco into volunteers. That
means students usually um you know, so
young kids. And they were able to show
changes in the blood flow within
minutes, certainly within an hour of
eating cocoa.
>> Beneficial changes in your blood flow.
>> They call it the heart medicine.
>> Yeah. No, heart circulation, brain.
>> So, she's um my girlfriend's very
spiritual. She runs a business called
Bali Breathwork. Um #ad if I have to say
that. But in her business, one of the
things she does at the very start of the
session with women all over the world
that come to her retreats is she makes
cacao for them. And
you notice instantly how people change
when they've had a hot cup of cacao.
It's and and she says it like almost
brings out their heart. And I guess
that's because of the circulation
reasons. Yes,
>> it is. But it also of course we know it
contains a few other beneficial
stimulate stimulating effects sort of
similar to the effects with coffee which
in certainly as I've already said is a
medicine as well but cocoa and chocolate
does have a uplifting effect which is
why we love it. So
>> and we have to be clear here we're not
talking about hot chocolate that comes
from a packet or something necessarily.
>> We would like it to be as dark as
possible.
>> Okay. Sorry.
>> The less sugar, the less fat. Um, so we
talk about 75% cocoa solids, you know,
so it's dark chocolate and it tastes a
bit more medicinal, doesn't it? It's not
as sweet. Um, but I'm saying to many of
my patients, take 50 g a day. It's a
medicine.
>> Damn, she's right. My fridge is full of
dark chocolate. I tend to avoid it, but
the drawer of my fridge has all of her
dark chocolate in, and it's she she
likes it 90%. If she can get a 90%
she'll take it.
>> Yeah. 90% is quite good now.
>> Yeah.
>> Having a look at the green tea.
There was a study done in 2008 which
supports how it improved cognitive
function, memory, attention accuracy and
>> [clears throat]
>> um long-term consumption associated with
lower risk of cognitive decline and
Alzheimer's disease according to the
Journal of Nutritional Biochemistry in
2011.
It's nice to have somebody else just say
what you said.
>> Yeah, but it's it's ex exactly. I didn't
realize that. I didn't I had no idea.
I had no idea.
All those times I turned it down when
she offered it to me.
>> You can't say sorry.
>> I have literally literally I've got a
Wow. heart health, brain function, fat
burning and metabolism, cancer
prevention, early evidence, blood sugar
and insulin sensitivity, gut and oral
health.
>> [music]
>> If there's anything we need, it is
connection. Especially in the world
we're living in today. And that is
exactly why we created these
conversation cards. Because on this
show, when I sit here with my guest and
have those deep, intimate conversations,
this remarkable thing happens time and
time again. We feel deeply connected to
each other. At the end of every episode,
the guest I'm interviewing leaves a
question for the next guest, and we've
turned them into these conversation
cards. And we've added these twist cards
to make your conversations even more
interesting. And there are so many more
twists along the way with the
conversation cards. This is the brand
new edition. And for the first time
ever, I've added to the pack this gold
card, which is an exclusive question
from me. But I'm only putting the gold
cards in the first run of conversation
cards. So get yours now before the
limited edition gold cards are all gone.
Head to the link in the description
below. [music]